I had a long-standing struggle and frustration with a _Lamy 2000 fountain pen_,
which seemed to write really bad for me
and break all the time.
Yesterday I visited the [Twoje Pióro](https://www.twojepioro.pl/) shop in Kraków,
at Kilińskiego street.
An extremely kind and helpful employee there
took my pen and tried it (although I didn't go there to buy anything!),
opened it and looked at the feed to verify it's not dirty or clogged,
then insisted on asking me what ink I used.
I was not sure, but I said it might be KWZ because that's what I normally use.
She quickly started advising that I clean up the pen and try a "simpler" ink,
like the cheapest Pelikan, a "plain European kind".
She explained that KWZ is an amazing brand but it has slightly thicker pigments,
and even Japanese inks are different than European ones
and may behave differently, and that this pen is particularly sensitive to inks.
She said she doesn't guarantee it will work,
but if it won't, to bring it to them and they will try to help me send it to Lamy
(even though I didn't buy the pen at their shop!).
In the evening I did what she suggested.
And wow, it seems to have helped...!
I'm not yet sure what to think about it in context of the pen itself,
and still might try to visit them again to ask if it's totally fine now
and maybe what other inks I might be ok to use in it.
But for sure, that is honestly a crazy amazing support level
I never yet encountered anywhere in the beautiful country of Poland
that I live in and love so much.
Thank you!
