# Rust vs. Go

I started to understand why Rust authors made other design decision than Go authors
when I found a thought that they assign different priorities to three "ideals":
_readability_ (or, "simple API"), _security_, and _performance_.

```pikchr:render
C1: circle "security"
M1: move from C1.c go 200% heading 60
C2: circle "read-" "ability" with .c at M1.end
M2: move from C2.c go 200% south
C3: circle "perfor-" "mance" with .c at M2.end
line from C1 to C2 chop
line from C2 to C3 chop
line from C1 to C3 "Rust" aligned above chop
"Go" with .s at C2.n
```

In case of Go, I'd say _readability_ ("simple API") is top, _security_ comes after, and _performance_ is a third priority.
I claim this shows up in allowing `nil` in the language (compromise against _security_),
and in allowing a garbage collector in the language (compromise against _performance_).

In case of Rust, I see it as _security_ and _performance_ playing top-priority duo;
with _readability_ being cared for, but only as long as it doesn't interfere with those.

I think this fact alone, of enabling a shared success of _both_ of such seemingly at-odds ideals as _security_
and _performance_ in Rust, is a mind-blowing accomplishment already.
I now understand and respect exceptionality of that achievement,
and through that accept that there's not enough magic to be able to achieve flawless _readability_ as well
— grudgingly forcing it to occupy a back-seat.

Interestingly, the _security_ plus _performance_ duo seems to be already balancing a sharp edge,
with their relation being a rough if loving and respectful friendship.
I interpret this as the source of occasional tensions showing up in the community,
e.g. most visibly around the use of `unsafe`.
