# Shadows of Kilforth - first impressions

I bought SoK yesterday as a gift for myself for my patron's day today. I started playing yesterday evening; this first game is still on, but I just wanted to already say I am thoroughly impressed.

I am a "theme kind of player" (vs. the mechanics folk) so I am especially grateful for the numerous official tweaks for making the game easier and simpler, scattered around the rulebook. The game seems to still be handing me my ass (only 8 Nights left and I am just in Chapter 4), but I am definitely superbly enjoying things, and not feeling guilty of houseruling, because the variants are officially supported (the 4+ sucess, no Plots, -1 Night at start, auto-Stealth; but forgot about the Adventurer mode), yet the game is still tense for me.

As a special, incredible highlight, yesterday at some point I just sat still in awe for a while, contemplating in shock how my Vampire Lordless Bushi went on to suck the blood dry from a fragile, innocent Musician. And he did it just for a single gold coin, to progress with the Saga, and because he's an Oath Breaker. What a monster he has become - and all that totally within and because of the game's framework of rules! And the subsequent flavor text of the Saga was how _"now you must overcome the darkness within you"..._ Wow, just wow - and all that only in my very first playthrough. I love also that there's an official sandbox variant "Exploration". It is the kind of thing I was looking for, as a story engine, coming from Shadows of Brimstone, and I totally didn't expect this to be already built-in.

Finally, I find the rulebook really approachable and quite well organized. The rules are more complex than I thought (on YouTube it all looks so easy), but somehow I tend to quickly find things and they are usually where I expect them to be - and in the rare exceptional cases, the thorough index easily accessible on the back cover is a blessing and thinking of it already gives me this warm fuzzy feeling of a solid supportive companion.

Yes, there are a few tiny things I feel could still be done even better (e.g. being partly color-deficient, I don't see the color synergies, will have to print a BGG post for them - maybe could be reflected also in geometry somehow next time for folks like me; some shallow box for the token pool, doubling as an insert, could be great - might need to look around on my own; an extra card per player for tracking the special Move/Confront/... APs could help, could be printed on the dividers to save space, plus maybe with a Max Health track; double-sided HP/AP coin-like tokens shown on BGG also look less fiddly than AP+HP stacks). But those definitely don't break my immersion and I'm still looking forward what the game will show me in the future.

I didn't read the Sagas in advance because I only have one opportunity to play the game for the first time 😄 so I want full surprise, but I feel the combinations of keywords and various types of cards should provide enough variability in the creative prompts to not become boring to me too fast in a longer perspective. I love that this game provides races and classes somewhat off the beaten track (big reason why I chose it over GoK; whereas in CoK the resources game seemed too much of a distraction vs. narration to me - but maybe I will still get it eventually, will see). Also I was especially looking for a "dungeon crawler/adventure/sandbox" game where combat would not be too prominent - I still feel it could be reduced much more, the tin-soldier wargames legacy of D&D seems not letting go easily across the whole industry - so I am happy various other abilities are important in SoK, even though I understand its apparently the weakest game in the series in this regard when it comes to Ancients (I just read that GoK had lvl-4 Skills against that, and CoK has multi-Attr Ancients).

All in all, I am impressed by the game; I had some hopes and wishes when buying, expected to be disappointed, but instead was amazed and surprised. I feel it may fit me better than AH:LCG as a narration generator, with more emergent and unscripted storytelling, and less prepwork overhead (I discovered I dislike heavy deckbuilding as I'm absolutely not a min-maxer type). I wonder whether SoK or SoB will end up seeing more playtime from me (and there's still the Dungeons of Infinity container ship wading on its way somewhere around Senegal) but I cannot be more happy to even be asking this question, I would love if they both stayed the staples for my solo entertainment that I could be looking forward to spending time with!
